Schema Change: Field deprecations/sunsetting (#155)
fivetran/dbt_shopify: CHANGELOG.md

# dbt_shopify v1.8.0

[PR #155](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_shopify/pull/155) includes the following updates:

## Schema/Data Changes
**5 total changes • 5 possible breaking changes**

| Data Model(s) | Change type | Old | New | Notes |
| ------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | ----- |

> | `shopify__order_lines` | Removed columns | `variant_fulfillment_service`<br>`variant_grams`<br>`variant_weight`<br>`variant_weight_unit`<br>`variant_option_1`<br>`variant_option_2`<br>`variant_option_3` | | [Completes removal of deprecated fields from January updates](https://fivetran.com/docs/connectors/applications/shopify/changelog#january2025). |

Reviewer: Do we want to standardize on “remove” or “sunset”? The PR title uses “sunset,” and that’s what we’ve used in other packages, so I’d lean toward “sunset” for consistency--but open to thoughts. Maybe post in the team channel if you want to discuss.

Author: Good call, let's use sunset, it's the more appropriate term in this case.

| `shopify__inventory_levels` | Removed columns | `variant_fulfillment_service`<br>`variant_inventory_management`<br>`variant_grams`<br>`variant_weight`<br>`variant_weight_unit`<br>`variant_option_1`<br>`variant_option_2`<br>`variant_option_3` | | [Completes removal of deprecated fields from January updates](https://fivetran.com/docs/connectors/applications/shopify/changelog#january2025). |
| `shopify__daily_shop`<br>`shopify_gql__daily_shop` | Data changes | Order metrics may be inflated | Order metrics now correctly calculated | Soft-deleted staging shop records are now filtered out, which previously could have incorrectly inflated metrics. |
| `shopify__order_lines` | Deprecated columns | `pre_tax_price`<br>`pre_tax_price_set` | | These fields now return null and will be removed in a future release. |
| `shopify__products` | Deprecated column | `published_scope` | | This field now returns null and will be removed in a future release. |
 
## Feature Updates

> - Applied removal (or deprecation) of equivalent fields above to the upstream staging models. 

Reviewer: I would just remove this since there is no new information.
```suggestion
```

# dbt_shopify v1.8.0

[PR #155](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_shopify/pull/155) includes the following updates:

## Schema/Data Changes
**3 total changes • 3 possible breaking changes**

| Data Model(s) | Change type | Old | New | Notes |
| ------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | ----- |
| `shopify__order_lines` | Removed columns | `variant_fulfillment_service`<br>`variant_grams`<br>`variant_weight`<br>`variant_weight_unit`<br>`variant_option_1`<br>`variant_option_2`<br>`variant_option_3` | | Completes deprecation of `product_variant` source, [which was removed in earlier Shopify connector updates](https://fivetran.com/docs/connectors/applications/shopify/changelog#january2025). |
| `shopify__inventory_levels` | Removed columns | `variant_fulfillment_service`<br>`variant_inventory_management`<br>`variant_grams`<br>`variant_weight`<br>`variant_weight_unit`<br>`variant_option_1`<br>`variant_option_2`<br>`variant_option_3` | | Columns sourced from deprecated `product_variant` source, [removed in earlier Shopify connector updates](https://fivetran.com/docs/connectors/applications/shopify/changelog#january2025). |

> | `shopify__daily_shop`<br>`shopify_gql__daily_shop` | Data changes | Order metrics may be inflated | Order metrics now correctly calculated | Soft-deleted staging shop records filtered out, which previously could incorrectly inflate metrics. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `shopify__daily_shop`<br>`shopify_gql__daily_shop` | Data changes | Order metrics may be inflated | Order metrics now correctly calculated | Soft-deleted staging shop records are now filtered out, which previously could have incorrectly inflated metrics. |
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Add deprecated columns to table.

Author: Good callout! Adding that in.

| Data Model(s) | Change type | Old | New | Notes |
| ------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | ----- |
| `stg_shopify__product_variant` | Removed columns | `fulfillment_service`<br>`grams`<br>`inventory_management`<br>`old_inventory_quantity`<br>`weight`<br>`weight_unit`<br>`option_1`<br>`option_2`<br>`option_3` |  | **Breaking change** Completes deprecation of `product_variant` source, [removed in earlier Shopify connector updates](https://fivetran.com/docs/connectors/applications/shopify/changelog#january2025). |
| `stg_shopify__inventory_level` | Removed column | `available_quantity` | | **Breaking change** Completes deprecation of field, [removed in earlier Shopify connector updates](https://fivetran.com/docs/connectors/applications/shopify/changelog#january2025) |
| `stg_shopify__shop`<br>`stg_shopify__gql_shop` | Data change (bug fix) | Keeps in soft deleted records. | Soft deleted records filtered out. | Ensures there is no metric inflation in downstream shop models. |
</details>
<br>

## Documentation
- Adds deprecation notes to fields no longer supported by the connector. These fields now return null and will be removed in a future release.

> 

Reviewer 2: Should there be an under the hood entry about adjusting the horizontal integrity test?

Author: I'd say no, as we are trying to tighten up our changelogs to be more customer-focused and the customer won't really have interest in what our internal tests are.
